---
layout: post
title: Ubuntu 8.4 and KDE4
permalink: /2008/05/ubuntu-84-and-kde4/index.html
post_id: 13
categories: 
- kde4
- Linux
- ubuntu 8.4
---

Well, the first thing I should tell you, is that I'm not a Linux guy.
I've always been with Microsoft; I develop in asp.net/c# primarily
(although I do venture into PHP often). I prefer the range of tools
with Microsoft, they're better developed and have that intuitivity (if
that's a word) that many open-source projects lack.

However, I
do occasionally dabble in Linux. I started with a RedHat 7 dual-boot in
a laptop I had back in 01, and since then I've occasionally installed
Ubuntu in dual-boot partitions. However, nothing has impressed me quite
as much as the latest version of Ubuntu, coupled with KDE4.

It's
great stuff. First off, the interface was great. KDE4 has a lot to say
for itself; it fixes the usability problem. I like to cite the
'grandpa' test; if my grandparents can use it, then it'd be ok. And, I
actually think that this might be the ticket; this could be the thing
that brings Linux out of the boxes of computer engineers and into the
hands of the public. I instinctively was able to move about, find
things, install things (how I love the Adept package manager. Windows,
take tips), run things. I was able to set up a media server with my
entire media library without a hitch, following a tutorial. And it
worked <span style="font-style: italic;">exactly</span> how it was supposed to be.  This is big for me. I never get Linux to run right.

That
said, if you're looking to start a media server of your own, check out
Jinzora2. It's an easy-to-set-up program running PHP and MySQL, and it
will load your music library for you, and even find all the metadata
from cover art to lyrics. Check out the tutorial I followed <a href="http://rubbervir.us/projects/ubuntu_media_server/">here</a> and the sequel <a href="http://rubbervir.us/projects/ubuntu_media_server/part2.html">here</a>
and go for it. So far, my server's been up about a week without a
hitch. I can finally say 'Yay Linux' and embrace the penguin (although
in a fit of irony, I set it up using Putty from my Vista machine.)
