---
layout: post
title: One Million Little Ideas
permalink: /2008/02/one-million-little-ideas/index.html
post_id: 8
categories: 
- Development
- General
- ideas
---

I've got a little problem. Everyone has their quirks; mine's finishing projects.

It's
some weird form of subversive ADD, lurking until I'm about 50% done
with a project and then viciously attacking with full force. It's the
thing that fills up my hard drive with templates in PSDs and hundreds
of visual studio files named 'test_X' or 'X_POC'. So, consequently, I
end up starting a good-sized handful of projects at once, making
commitments, and inevitably failing at actually completing anything
unless I secure a pot of coffee and stay up to 4 in the morning (90% of
Gevalum's coding was done after 9PM, and 98% of it was with coffee in
hand. I estimated that I've consumed a total 65.3 gallons of coffee
since March 10, 2006, it's beginning, assuming an average of a cup and
a half of coffee per day.)

Currently, my to-do list includes:
-
Gevalum's big 5.2 update, including a new monster fighting system, a
new player-versus-player system, lots of little interface updates, and
streamlining the engine

- Bookloft, a site where users can get on and discuss their favorite books

-
Getting a huge enterprise-level application ready for a Star-Wars group
(asp.net, has to be scalable enough to add sub-groups with sub-groups
with sub-groups..etc and personal websites for each group commander,
and training manuals, and all sorts of stuff)

- Another one for a different group. Not as big, but still nothing to shake a lightsaber at.

-
Some kind of time manager. Probably something I'd open-source
eventually.. will provide more details in another post, if I get it to
it. It's at the bottom of my priorities.

- Studying for the MCTS certifications for .NET 2.0 web-based development (70-536,70-528), and then the MCPD test (70-547)

- Studying for the MCTS in SQL Server 2k5 Implementation/Maintenance (70-431)

- Learning openSUSE 10.3 inside and out

- Setting up my new server

And spending as little time as possible doing these, so I can be with my pregnant wife. The list never ends.

I guess that's where open-sourcing things comes in handy.
