---
layout: post
title: How I Got Started Programming
permalink: /2008/07/how-i-got-started-programming/index.html
post_id: 19
categories: 
- Development
- General
- jack lawson
---

This one's been floating around the internet (although I appear to be late on the trend). However, here goes:

*How old were you when you started programming?* 
I was in 5th grade, so I was ten, I think. 

*How did you get started in programming?
*My friend Logan and I decided we were going to create Tomb Raider 4, so we each bought copies of "<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Learn_to_Program_BASIC">Learn to Program Basic</a>".



We didn't quite make it all the way to that particular game.

*What was your first language?* 
Something InterPlay tried to pass off as Basic. My first profitable language was HTML, when I made a bowling website for my aunt Sue when I was 12.

*What was the first real program you wrote?*
I made a pretty extensive text-based RPG. It started on BASIC, then moved to my TI-83 during Trig class, and eventually evolved into Gevalum.

*What languages have you used since you started programming?*
BASIC, TI-83 BASIC, HTML (XHTML), Javascript, CSS, Java, C++, ASP.NET, C#, ActionScript, ASP, PHP, SQL, XML, VB.NET. I wouldn't call myself proficient with several of the aforementioned, but I have used them.

*What was your first professional programming gig?*
I worked for a little 3-man web shop in Middletown, OH, doing ASP and SQL, mostly administrative back-ends to websites. It was the month after I turned 16.

*If you knew then what you know now, would you have started programming?*
Absolutely. I probably would have started with something like Java instead of Basic and PHP instead of ASP, though. I love development and wouldn't trade it for any other job.



*If there is one thing you learned along the way that you would tell new developers, what would it be?*
Learn to use Google.

*What's the most fun you've ever had ... programming?*
My online game, Gevalum. Although it's been surplanted by something else (a story which I may delve into sometime), I put two years into developing something I thought was fantastic. It went from ASP with frames to PHP with AJAX, and to watch it grow was fantastic.

That's the end of the questions: there you have it.

