---
layout: post
title: A Better Way
permalink: /2008/02/a-better-way/index.html
post_id: 6
categories: 
- a better way
- Development
- jack lawson
---

A Better Way, my new blog, is where I can dump all of the stuff that
doesn't really pertain to my other blog, "Coffee Grounds and Crumpled
Paper". CGCP is the blog that I run for an online game that I, along
with a friend from Sweden, made named Gevalum. It's an online, free,
browser-based RPG where players can create accounts and play a fairly
simple but addictive game. It's got a pretty advanced AJAX framework
that I wrote up; I did the design and laid out much of the framework,
and my friend (Matt) filled in the spots with our back-end PHP and
database design and with much of the javascript. But, the Gevalum
design is for another post.

I am a 19 year old web application
developer. I've been making websites since I was 10 years old, and
learned my first programming language (BASIC) at 11. Though I'm
relatively young in the field, I've got plenty of experience, along
with a knack to finding a more efficient, prettier way around things
since I haven't been brought up in the kind of environment that stifles
that kind of thought.

I know ASP, PHP, ColdFusion, HTML, CSS,
JavaScript, a little Java, some C++, and my favorite: ASP.NET with C#.
I love the syntax, and I love the scalability that ASP.NET/C# offers.
However, for lightweight applications, I prefer a simple PHP back-end,
called through AJAX for seamlessness on xhtml-compliant interfaces.
(Oh, yeah. I also design all of my interfaces, using Adobe Photoshop
CS2, or C4D if I'm feeling adventurous).

The reason for this
blog is simple: a brain dump, where I can post my ideas on how to break
down barriers, and how to level the fact that the _old_ way is the _good_ way. Sometimes it works, but more often than not- there's a better way.
