---
layout: post
title: Don't Add "Beta" Unless It Is, In Fact, A Beta
permalink: /2008/08/dont-add-beta-unless-it-is-in-fact-a-beta/index.html
post_id: 23
categories: 
- Development
- General
- User Interface Design
---

I've been browsing about lately, and noticed the numbers of sites with "Beta" attached on the end. It's a stupid trend that I hope to see fall down and die sometime soon.

It all came to a head when a friend of mine showed me a news site - cincinnati.com - which says "BETA", of course in call caps, in a nice sans-serif font, white on a dark background. Like every other site out there. They didn't even bother dressing up the "BETA", it's as if they just looked at a handful of popular sites and copy / pasted it into Photoshop, and had their magic "trendy" logo.

There are two reasons that compromise 90% of "beta" websites out there: either it's some web designer who thinks he's gonna be "cool" like all of the newer sites (gmail was a beta for years! facebook and all those social netwokring sites were betas for a long time! maybe if we add "beta", we'll be popular too!). But, unfortunately, it makes you look like a total idiot. Sorry, dude, but how about trying originality instead? At least understand what "beta" means. Or, if it's not that, it's a cop-out for web developers. It says, "We'll call it a beta, so that if something goes wrong we can smile and say that we expected it, because it is, after all, a beta". It's an excuse pre-planned so that nobody has to take the blame. It's a way to get out of trouble.

It's really tacky.
